This directory contains the Python code for solving and simulating from the model of Jones and Pratap (2020).

In the settings.py file you will find all of the basic settings that allows the user to adjust the individual components in the model such as the calibrated values, and allowing for no bequests, no liquidation etc.

To run the model, use main.py in which the data is loaded in and transformed properly before being parsed to a model handler called onerun that not only solves the model and simulates from it but also calculates the SMD criterion value.

At the top of main.py you will find two booleans for turning off and on the production of graphs or comparative statics.

To evaluate the SMD criterion over a pre-specified parameter grid, use smd_graph.py with appropriate settings.

To perform comparative statics, the parameters in main.py need merely be changed to the appropriate values. Note that instead of 0 the value 1E-10 must be used to insure stability of all functions.

The model is solved via VFI in solve_model.py, in which the workers problem is first solved independently before finding the farmers operating and liquidity decisions. The decision rules are then used as input in the Simulation.py function run_sim to run N simulations that are used when evaluating the SMD criterion.

As there are many inputs and outputs used between the data section, solving the model, and simulation section, the folder IOFILES is used to preserve results (which may have used significant time to generate) and parse them to the appropriate functions. 
The files fevec.txt, zvec.txt, feshks.txt, and zshks.txt should never be deleted from IOFILES, though all other files can be removed as they will be generated by the Python code.
